[soft piano music plays]
[people softly chattering]
- Big day.
- I guess so.
- Seriously, you
should be very proud.
- Thanks.
- Time to get
started, everybody.
So who's up first?
[pulsing electronic music]
[woman sighs]
- [Man] Can we get this rolling?
- We're almost there.
- Tell me it'll work.
- It'll work.
- Everything is online.
- Thank you for your patience.
What we're presenting here today
is nothing short
of a breakthrough.
I think you'll be pleased to see
it aligns with your goals at
Syntec Lab, Mr. Montgomery,
and, certainly, it
puts the university
on the cutting-edge of
human sensory research.
All right, ready to go?
Everyone, this is Quinn.
Quinn has been working with
us the past couple months
on a project that we're
calling the Sonic Sleeves.
It's relatively simple.
Based, in part, on the early
work of Paul Bach-y-Rita,
we're using the
mechanoreceptors in the skin
to turn sounds, like my voice,
into pulses that
are felt by Quinn,
who, as you may have
noticed, is deaf.
And these pulses cause
patterns of vibration,
which help Quinn to, in
essence, hear by feeling.
Are you ready?
Hello.
[beeping]
[soft music]
- That's a little easy.
Most interactions
begin that way.
- Downtown, downtown.
[beeping]
Downtown.
We'll go again.
Cheeseburger.
[beeping]
Happy days.
- Let's go ahead and
stop right there.
Apologies, Ted,
Diana, I was assured
we had some of these
bugs worked out.
- [Ted] Well, let's
hope we do next time.
- If you just give us
a little bit more time.
They were working
perfectly, I assure you.
It's not your fault.
- Was there a reason you started
with a device for the deaf?
Was it personal to you?
- Who are you?
How do you know
what I'm working on?
I'm Dr. Frederick Amberger.
- Should I have heard of you?
- No.
My work has always been
done behind closed doors,
attributed to others or
just plain forgotten.
But I think you can
help change that.
- Your work?
- Seeking out a path to
new sensory experiences,
through our sensory-enlightened
counterparts.
- Sensory-enlightened?
- Where others see disability,
I see transformative individuals
with a great aptitude for
realigning their sensory inputs.
See for yourself.
I believe you can
unlock the sixth sense
by combining the strengths
of five individuals,
each lacking one of the
five fundamental senses.
Sight, hearing, taste,
touch, and smell.
- Combining, how,
that's not possible.
- I thought so, too,
until I witnessed it.
I've witnessed many things that
would be deemed impossible.
- How are you defining
the sixth sense?
- As a new way to
understand, feel, visualize,
and experience the
physical world around us,
illuminating the entire
electromagnetic spectrum
into information
that can be perceived
as easily as me looking
at you right now.
- Look, this sounds
interesting, but I-
- You know as well as I do,
the next frontier of
discovery isn't out there.
It's in here.
Don't let the small
failures define you.
Instead, ask yourself how
far you're willing to go
to find the answers you seek.
I look forward to
hearing from you.
[swirling electronic music]
[discordant piano pounding]
- Seriously, Bob, you can't
wait until after dinner?
- Well, I still have
to get through dinner.
- It's fine, Mom.
- Well, according to the
court order, she should be.
- So, Jules, catch us up.
How's school going?
- It's fine.
- Care to elaborate?
- Good Lord, Jules,
give her something.
She's had the courtesy to
invite you into our home.
- So this isn't my home anymore?
The house I was raised in.
How long do I have to
serve out this penance for?
Three years obviously
isn't enough.
Four, five, the rest of my life?
- You made your bed.
- All right.
If you two aren't going to
bother to try, why should I?
- I had a horrible day, Mom.
Is that what you wanna hear?
- My project failed.
- [Mom] What project?
- It's a sensory
device for the deaf.
It's a wearable technology
that helps you hear
through the vibrations
of the skin.
- No.
- You realize you can't
make her whole again, right?
- Bob!
- I'm not ready, Kath.
- I'm sorry, this was a mistake.
[pulsing electronic music]
[sighing]
[Jules sighs]
[pulsing electronic music]
[siren wails]
[droning music]
What's the meaning of this?
- So it was personal, then.
- Why do you have something
about my sister in here?
- You like tea?
I'll make tea.
- Why are you cataloging
people's suffering?
- I'm not cataloging suffering.
- These people's lives
are changed forever.
Dana's life has
changed completely.
What shaped her, what drove
her can't be reclaimed.
- Isn't that what you're trying
to do with your contraption?
- It's a path
forward, hopefully.
- What if there's another path?
- [Jules] What, this?
- On second thought, I
think breakfast is in order.
The human body is made
up of layers of cells,
each with receptors
that translate the
energy of a stimulus
into electrical signals ending
in the somatosensory cortex.
Generally, we categorize
these as our five senses.
On their own, these
senses are imperfect.
Imagine what it would be like
if you ate this piece of bread
and it smelled like nothing.
Imagine if you
touched it and it felt
like a gooey, dripping liquid,
devoid of shape and structure.
What do you have?
- A mess.
- No, you'd have our breakfast.
[sizzling]
And when you turn on the heat.
- They all come together.
- Exactly.
- But how, how do
they come together
when we're talking about people?
- Initially, a
controlled environment.
Isolate the sensory enhancements
for each enlightened individual,
identify the pathways of
their sensory realignment.
Then provide a little direction
via some technological
augmentation
to unlock what is already
present within them.
- [Jules] Why the five?
- Well, imagine an electrical
current when it's overloaded.
The five together
help balance the load.
Eventually, we'll
move beyond this need,
but it's where we start.
- But that's impossible.
What you're proposing,
there's no precedent.
- We have to strike
that word "impossible"
from your vocabulary.
The work in that notebook
contains precedent.
We just have to go further.
- But why we?
I don't know what
I bring to this.
- A curious mind, a penchant
for discovery, longevity.
While you may not be
able to articulate it,
you, too, see the
transcendent nature
of our sensory-enlightened
counterparts.
I need someone like you to help
me carry this work forward.
- Who are you, really?
[eerie music]
[whispering]
[shimmering electronic music]
- You want tea?
I'll make tea.
- We already have tea.
[knocking]
- Dad?
How come you're not dressed?
We have an appointment.
Hi?
Dad, it's a little late to
be getting help around here.
We're way past that.
- I'm not help.
- She's a colleague.
- [sighs] Not this again.
College student?
- [Jules] Yeah.
- Well, my apologies.
My father, I'm afraid to say,
is not his best self these days.
And we have an appointment.
- My son has little imagination.
He knows not of what he speaks.
- And it's time for you to go.
[shimmering electronic music]
- You've got roughly
a quadrillion synapses
in your brain,
a quadrillion connections
between nerves,
all happening right now,
carving out the pathways
that make us who we are.
To give you a
little perspective,
the number of stars
in the Milky Way
is about 300 billion.
So you've got 1000
times more synapses
happening inside your
brain than all the stars
in the Milky Way galaxy.
- [Frederick Voiceover] We
have to strike that word
"impossible" from
your vocabulary.
The work in that notebook
contains precedent.
We just have to go further.
- Doing all this computational
work, well, that's
what we're here for.
[shimmering electronic music]
- Day one, October 12th, 1985.
Now what's your name, young man?
- [Young Man] Anthony.
- Anthony.
We've invited several potential
candidates in for interview.
- Why are you doing it?
- A way to better
understand our senses.
It's our belief that
those deemed disabled
by our society hold the
key to understanding
how the brain rewires
itself in the face
of faulty, damaged, or
missing sensory inputs.
- Oh, that's easy.
Smell with your nose,
touch with your
fingers and toes,
taste with your tongue,
hear with your ears,
and see with your eyes.
- You need Missy
to tell you that?
[shimmering electronic music]
- [Frederick Voiceover] Day 23.
We've selected our
initial candidates
for phase one of the study.
At H's prompting,
these candidates
represent the loss of
the primary five senses,
taste, touch, smell,
hearing, and sight.
[shimmering electronic music]
Day 98.
Breakthrough.
Testing Subject Three,
representing loss of sight.
- 15.
- We detect enhanced
hearing capabilities, as well
as an advanced olfactory.
- Seven o'clock.
- [Frederick Voiceover] Day 132.
At this point, we've detected
a myriad of enhanced senses
to varying degrees
in all our subjects,
with consistent results
against our control group.
H has suggested placing our
subjects in a group setting
to study the effects
of social interaction
on sensory input, the
human factor, if you will.
[shimmering electronic music]
Day 172.
After noting interesting effects
based on social
interaction, we've decided
to test if we can,
essentially, link
our subjects'
sensory experiences.
We shall attempt this
through restricting
our subjects' usable
sensory inputs,
monitoring their brain activity
via one set of sensors,
while creating a shared feed
of their combined
electromagnetic brainwaves.
[shimmering electronic music]
- Can anybody else see this?
- It's incredible.
- How am I seeing this?
This is rad!
- What are they
seeing, experiencing?
[shimmering electronic music]
- [Man] This is nuts.
- Amberger's onto something
truly game-changing,
evolution and advancement
to understanding
of the human brain.
Game-changing.
- [Woman] Don't do this, Jules.
- Do what?
- [Man] Lose focus.
We're getting one more
chance with the sleeves,
and that's where
our head should be.
- [Woman] He's right.
- Skip to one file, and
then read it on the way.
- [Man] On the way where?
- Breakfast.
[pulsing electronic music]
- I don't understand,
what did they see?
- I think they
somehow experienced
the entire
electromagnetic spectrum,
allowing them to feel the energy
of the world surrounding
them, including each other.
- That sounds terrible.
You wouldn't want to
sense that much noise.
- Exactly.
- How long have you
not been able to taste?
Can you smell?
- Yeah, I can still smell.
- Every tested your
acuity for smell?
- Just because I can't
taste doesn't mean
I've somehow got a
world class nose.
- Just curious.
What about you?
- What about me?
- Do you think that
you're more or less
aware of your surroundings now?
- This requires me to be more
aware of my surroundings.
- [Amberger] And would you say
that, because of the chair,
you feel space differently now?
- I guess.
- [Amberger] And would you
say that the loss of taste
has shifted how you
approach your daily life?
- That goes without saying.
- Currently, we
have limited control
over our brain's
ability to rewire
and realign sensory
inputs, but I believe
that with your help,
we can finish the work
I started in here.
Unlock the code to guiding
these sensory pathways
and we're on our
way to expanding
the human sensory experience.
- I'm perfectly fine how I am.
- You're more than fine,
you're enlightened.
- I'm sorry, I
can't help but feel
like this is a little beyond
what's actually possible.
Sure, we had a little
hiccough with the sleeves,
but we can figure that out.
It's tangible, real.
- And something that
not too long ago
was thought to be impossible.
- Without thinking, what
do you smell right now?
- Bubblegum.
♪ Is this just a dream
♪ Or is this the real thing
- You both know why I
started down this path.
You both know I can't do
any of this without you.
- So what exactly are we
talking about doing here?
- First, we all need to get
up to speed on Amberger's work
and seek out any supporting
data we can find.
[pulsing electronic music]
Then we compile, blending
Amberger's research
with our current track
into a possible thesis.
When we feel we've nailed it,
I'll go have a conversation
with Professor Johnston.
- [Professor] Hard no.
- You didn't even read it.
- I skimmed enough.
Creating new sensory inputs,
feeling the world around us.
This is a little
touchy-feely New Agey
for a science lab,
don't you think?
It has "enlightened" in
the title, for hell's sake,
and who in the world is
this Dr. Amberger character?
Actually, don't care.
The reality is we
are about to lose
a large chunk of funding
because the experiment
you assured me was ready for
prime time obviously wasn't.
You have a chance to fix this,
and that's exactly
what you're gonna do.
This is you simply
spinning your wheels
after experiencing a
little bit of failure.
Get focused and make
those sleeves work.
[pulsing electronic music]
- So?
- We're a go.
- Seriously?
- We'll have to move forward
the sleeves, but, yeah.
Let's do this.
- So what's the plan?
- We need subjects.
- I posted on every
local disability group
I could find online,
and I'm already getting
some positive responses.
- Great.
I'll drive these by the
school for the deaf and blind.
Sam's taking the health clubs.
Maybe post some at coffee shops
and stuff like that, too?
- Yeah, is he okay?
- What do you mean?
- Something's off.
- He disappears sometimes.
- Let's just concentrate
on getting these out.
- Okay.
[pulsing electronic music]
- I think you should
ask your sister
to come join the study.
- She, well, my family
isn't that really fond of me
at this point.
- Family's difficult
to navigate at times.
- Does your son know?
What we're doing. I mean.
- Family's difficult
to navigate.
- I mean, he seemed concerned.
Is everything okay?
- Our time on this
planet is short,
and mine, perhaps
a bit shorter now.
Thanks for giving
me a second chance.
- [Jules] See you tomorrow.
- Tomorrow.
[Jules sighs]
[Amberger gasps]
[rolling, tinkling
electronic music]
- You wanna try it?
Sir, sir?
Are you okay?
I've been sleepwalking.
Sir, sir?
You gotta wake up, man.
Oh, damn.
- I have no ID here.
- Sir, can you
tell me your name?
- What is this?
- Sir, we think you
were sleepwalking.
Can you tell me your
name, where you live?
- I'm meeting Jules.
- Who's Jules?
- She's helping me
with my experiments.
- Experiments?
Do you know where
you were meeting her?
[haunting ambient music]
- I don't remember.
- [Cop] Whoa, whoa.
What is your name, sir?
- I don't know.
- [Cop] It's okay, it'll come.
Why don't you take
a ride with us?
- Where are we going?
- Somewhere we can get
you all sorted out.
Take a seat.
- I think we should
just get started.
- He'll be here, I promise.
Let's just give it a minute.
- Not a great way to start
the grand experiment, Jules.
[people chattering]
- Jules, a word.
Jules, the sensory lab is for
legitimate, scientific study,
preferably the type of
study that's going to bring
research funding
into the university.
And I finally read this.
I can say with
complete confidence
that this is nonsense, the
stuff of science fiction.
- Professor, with
all due respect,
we know that what we perceive
with the human senses
is just a fraction of
what's occurring around us,
and we also know that
we can rewire the brain.
If we can figure out how
to guide that rewiring,
we unlock limitless
sensory potential.
- You're square pegging it.
Rewiring the brain is one
thing, but this sixth sense,
seeing beyond what is seeable
mumbo jumbo is lunacy.
- We don't see with our eyes.
We don't hear with our ears.
We don't taste with our tongue.
It's all done in the brain.
And since that's
true, it's possible,
truly possible, that, with
the right sensory input,
that-
- Stop!
Okay, please, just stop.
No more soliciting subjects,
no more of this so-called
doctor of yours,
and no more of this movie
of the week gobbledygook.
You have a directive already.
Stick to it or I'm
banning you from the lab
and turning your project
over to another team.
- What the hell, Jules?
- What?
- You lied to us.
- Now he's threatening
to take our project away.
Why would you do this?
- Because it won't fix her.
- The sleeves?
Of course it won't fix her.
That's not the point.
- [Student] You realize your
sister's still here, right?
- Of course I do.
- Maybe instead of avoiding
her on your quest to fix her,
you could actually try
to be part of her life.
I'm sure she'd
appreciate being seen
as more than a reminder
of your stupid mistake.
[soft electronic music]
- I gotta go.
- No.
No.
I don't wanna see you.
Don't you understand?
I have so little time,
and I have to finish.
- You just need to
get all the pieces.
And then you can come home.
[soft electronic music]
[phone chimes]
- Hello?
Yes, this is she.
Mister who?
Oh.
Oh, yes.
Is everything okay?
I'm sorry that I lied to you.
And I know you're
both really mad at me,
and I screwed up,
and that you both
probably think I'm crazy,
but they found Amberger,
and I really want your help.
- Who's they?
- [Cop] You ever make
it over to Idaho?
- Oh, hey.
- Boise PD ran some prints.
- I lost the biggest
fish of my life in Idaho.
Fought that thing
for nearly an hour.
Then it just slipped the line.
Nicknamed him Goliath.
Anyway, what have you got?
- [Cop] Boise PD ran some
prints for an old case.
- Heinrich Kline.
- Yeah.
Apparently, he was developing
some top secret tech
and then decided he
wanted to keep it.
- I can't imagine 30-year-old
technology's worth a damn now.
- Well, Uncle Sam seems to
think it's worth a trip.
- Fishing alone is worth a trip.
Have you alerted Boise PD?
- Yeah.
They're making the
call right now.
- [Cop] Lucky we
found your number
stuffed inside his pocket.
- Well, is he okay now?
- He seems to have his
head screwed on straight,
for now at least.
- Jules.
- Doc!
What happened, are you okay?
- Yeah, I'm much better now.
- This is Officer Sternes.
- We better jump on
this one right away.
- Are we talking about
the fishing or the case?
- Exactly.
- Who's Mr. Kline?
Why have you been lying to us?
- I assure you, everything
I shared with you
is real and possible.
- He's wanted by the FBI.
- He's what?
Why?
- Stealing government property.
- I didn't steal anything.
I simply kept my research.
- We'll keep him here.
FBI, they want us to hold
that Kline character.
- That might be a
bit of a problem.
- I've put a lot
of faith in you.
This means a lot more to me
than I think that
you understand,
so, please, tell us
what is going on.
- Smell with your nose,
touch with your fingers
[speaker drowned out].
- [Amberger Voiceover]
Her name was Hilda.
She was my whole world,
my partner in everything.
- See with your eyes.
- You need Missy
to tell you that?
- [Amberger Voiceover] She's
the one who helped guide
out experiments to
their initial success.
[shimmering electronic music]
It started slowly.
Her muscles would
give out suddenly
or she'd be stricken
with episodes of fatigue.
Before we could get a handle
on what was happening,
it accelerated.
Hilda insisted on
continuing the work.
She was convinced the Five
held the key to her cure.
- Does anybody else see this?
- It's incredible.
- Just as we had our
first breakthrough,
we faced being shut down.
What are they
seeing, experiencing?
[shimmering electronic music]
Our higher-ups wanted
actionable, usable technology.
I tried to buy some time
with another project
we had developed.
We called it the Sonar Suit,
based on bats' use
of echolocation,
sonar data translated
to electronic pulse
to provide a 360 degree
view that subjects
would see all at once.
[shimmering electronic music]
[beeping]
[gun bangs]
[shimmering electronic music]
[beeping]
[gun bangs]
The problem was, initial
tests were so successful,
it caused them to abandon
our other sensory research
to concentrate
solely on the suit.
So, before all of our
work with the Five
was to be filed away
in some cavernous void,
and the Sonar Suit sent
off to war, I liberated it.
One of the original Five, Toby,
had a quiet place,
far from prying eyes,
which he offered
up as a safe haven
to continue the work.
So we left and began
living as the Ambergers.
There, Hilda helped us
reconfigure the Sonar Suit
into a device that
we hoped would mimic
the experience of the Five.
- So Hilda's H in the notebook.
- [Amberger] Yes.
- [Sam] What happened to her?
- I don't like this.
I don't think we're ready.
- We've reversed the
polarity of the sensors.
We've tested all of
our modifications.
- Yeah, but doing this out
here, it's too dangerous.
- You and I both know this
is the only viable option,
free of electrical
interference, radio waves.
- We could've gone into
the middle of a field.
- Sure, but it wouldn't
have been as romantic.
- Fine...
- But, I am pulling the plug...
- if anything looks
like it's going wrong.
Just kiss me.
[quiet music]
Help me get this on.
Here's to discovery.
- Are you sure?
- Never more.
[clicking]
[buzzing]
Tingles.
- [Amberger] What are you doing?
- It's beautiful.
- Hilda, sit down.
- All those things they saw.
- Sit down!
- The full spectrum.
- Hilda, sit!
Hilda.
[buzzing]
Hilda!
She passed away.
- Is that why you stopped?
- That, and I didn't
have all the pieces.
Hilda was gone.
I had a son to raise.
I had to make a choice.
[quiet music]
- You think someone
will be coming now?
- [Amberger] The
government tends to have
a very long memory.
- How do we finish then?
- Jules, you can't be
suggesting we continue this.
- I want to see it through, Max.
- But the man's a fugitive.
- You two have shown
me time and again
your remarkable resilience,
meeting all the challenges
that life throws at you,
and, Max, you're right,
I need to stop seeing
Dana through the
lens of my own guilt
and start seeing the same
thing I see in both of you,
the thing that Dr. Amberger
has finally given me
the language for,
sensory enlightenment.
We all know there's
something to all this,
something worth exploring.
- Still, Jules, we
don't have subjects,
we don't have a lab, equipment.
The government may be after him.
- What if you two
are the subjects?
That only leaves three more.
- Only two more, if we
return to the quiet place,
and the equipment is there.
- I don't know, Jules.
This is crazy.
[pulsing electronic music]
- Sometimes you
have to ask yourself
how far you're willing to go
to find the answers you seek.
The next frontier
isn't out there,
it's in here.
[pulsing electronic music]
- No matter what, we agree
to finish the sleeves.
- Of course.
Sam, how about it?
Are we all in for discovery?
[pulsing electronic music]
- If the paper gets
authored, we get top billing,
since we're the
enlightened ones.
- Obviously.
- So, the local PD accidentally
released our Mr. Kline.
Apparently, he left
with a young woman
named Jules Christopher.
I guess she's a
university student
working something they
call a sensory lab,
which, based on Kline's
file, is right up his alley.
I'd say that's our first stop.
Hey.
- Oh, great work.
Hey, there's a local
fly shop nearby.
What do we say we hit
that along the way?
This way, if we get stuck
in some cross-country chase,
I have my license.
- I can't tell if
you're joking or not.
- I never joke about fishing.
- If we leave now, we can
be there before nightfall,
and I'm sure we can find some
other subjects on the way.
- Be where by nightfall?
And where have you been?
I thought I warned
you about this one.
You missed our appointment.
I've been all over
town looking for you,
and then I find you in the
company of your colleague,
planning an escape somewhere?
- It's none of your concern.
- Dad, you are my concern.
That's why we're
making this move,
so you can get the
medical attention you need
and be cared for properly.
- I am much too busy
for that nonsense.
- This isn't a negotiation.
Dad, stop!
If only you could
put that big brain
of yours to work
saving yourself.
- What do you think
I'm doing, son?
- Honestly, I have no idea.
I never have with you.
I know I've already
lost one parent
to this obsession of yours.
I know I'm barely
coming to terms
with what we are
facing right now.
- All I'm facing is a
deadline to complete the work.
Excuse the pun.
- How can you joke?
- Because what you see
as a frightening unknown,
I see as an opportunity
for discovery,
my last opportunity.
I miss her, too,
every day, but she, like me,
lived for the discovery.
- So neither one of you took
the time to consider me.
- I was trying to save her!
- Yeah?
How'd that work out?
Thank you for bringing him home.
I have him from here.
- Dr. Amberger.
- Thank you, Jules.
I'm very sorry, but I
think it's probably best
if you go.
- Wow, Nichols, you gotta
get a load of this one.
Look at the size of that brute.
- I was told someone was
looking for the sensory lab.
- Yeah, that's us.
[Jules sighs]
- What gives?
- His son.
Second person to
pull the plug today.
He's putting Doc into a home.
- So what's the plan?
Are we gonna spring
him or something?
What?
I thought we were
all in for discovery.
- No, I've never heard
of a Heinrich Kline.
- Well, we have
reason to believe
he may have been in contact
with one of your students,
a Jules Christopher.
- Of course.
- So you have heard of him.
- Well, no, but...
He may not be
going by that name.
- Welcome to the last
place you're ever going
to call home, most likely.
- Well, I can certainly
smell the death.
- Well, color me lucky
'cause I can't smell a thing.
I think that's what keeps
my sunny disposition
going all day long.
- No sense of smell?
Very interesting.
- Well, let's just say I really
enjoyed [sniffs] the '80s.
But I'm clean and sober now.
Darned if the old sniffer
didn't give up on me, though.
[pulsing electronic music]
- He may have figured
out we were coming.
Or we might not
be the only thing
catching up with him.
- I study something called
sensory enlightenment
in individuals like you.
- I'm gonna have to have you
hold that thought right now
as I introduce you to
your [whistles] new abode.
There's the dresser, closet.
Restroom's through there.
You can add to or
subtract furnishings
and bring in some personal
bling, if you prefer.
Important details.
Breakfast is at 6:30,
lunch 11:00, dinner 4:45.
We've got games, we've got TV,
we've got exercise classes,
field trips to the zoo,
local plays, things like that.
Now I'm on the day shift,
although there's talk of
moving me to the night shift.
That's on account of
the head of scheduling,
Joni, who used to
be my girlfriend,
is now my ex-girlfriend,
and that's on account
of Brenda, who's on
the day shift with me,
and the night shift, if
you know what I mean.
My name is Stevie.
If you need anything from
me, just press that button.
Any questions?
- Peppermint?
- [Stevie] Oh, I
don't mind if I do.
- Any sign of him?
- Nothing yet.
- How's that taste?
- Like peppermint I guess.
- Very interesting.
- It is?
- Oh, there's his son.
- I'll come to
you, where are you?
[pulsing electronic music]
Never mind, I'll
just find your phone.
- Excuse me, son, would
you escort me to my room?
- Sure.
- It's through the lobby
and down the hall.
- All right.
We're all set up.
We meet a specialist
in the morning.
Dinner is in an hour.
What do you wanna do?
You wanna watch some
TV or something?
- You should've
let me go with her.
I had a plan.
[pulsing electronic music]
- Dad, this is the
best place for you now.
- I know what's
happening to me, Noah.
- Okay, okay.
But can you just admit
that you can't battle
this on your own?
There's a team of doctors here,
specialists that can help you.
- I appreciate
what you're saying,
but none of these
people can help me.
Only I can help me.
- You'll love my room.
It's decorated in an homage
to America's greatest
movie star, Burt Reynolds.
What a dreamboat.
- I've gotta go.
Sorry.
- [Nichols] Agent Nichols, FBI.
We need to speak with
a patient of yours.
The name's Amberger.
He should've checked
in earlier today.
- You never understood.
- You never took the
time to explain it.
[phone buzzes]
- Hello?
- The FBI is in the building.
I repeat, they are
in the building.
- Who's there?
- Hi.
- You've gotta be kidding me.
For God's sakes, do none of you
get the seriousness of
what's happening here?
- We have to go.
- We are not going anywhere.
My father is a sick man,
he needs to be here.
- Doc, you don't
happen to be on the run
from Johnny Law or something?
- The FBI is coming.
- Yeah, that,
apparently for you.
- What, why?
- You think this place is bad,
you don't wanna
try federal prison.
It's a real downer.
- [Noah] Dad, what is this?
- [Amberger] The past
catching up, son.
- What did you do?
- They wanted to
lock everything away,
and I was trying to
save your mother.
You're right, I never
explained it properly or fully,
and I'm sorry for that.
- I think this is a
conversation to have on the way.
- The way?
- [Jules] Out of here.
- Are you sure they're
coming for my father?
- Absolutely.
- Thank you.
[pulsing electronic music]
- [Max] Let's go.
- [Stevie] Whoa,
whoa, whoa, whoa!
Did you guys plan this?
- What is happening, Dad?
- The work is happening.
Are you coming?
- Me?
- Both of you.
- If I come with
you and finish this,
whatever it is, will you
come back here with me
and face what you've done,
face what is happening with you?
- Whatever you want, son.
- All right.
- [Nichols] Where
else would residents
normally be right now?
- Well, dinner's not
for another 45 minutes,
and it's free time right now,
so anywhere, I guess.
- We could really use that
nose of yours, Stevie.
- What nose?
- Exactly.
[pulsing electronic music]
- Joni sure can hold a grudge.
What the hell!
[pulsing electronic music]
Woo, yeah, turn on the
Dead, fire up a blunt,
it'll be just like
the summer of '83.
- Let's go.
- Just one little stop.
[pulsing electronic music]
- I got the plate.
- Great.
Maybe this is a good
opportunity for us to regroup-
- John, if you say the
word "fishing" right now,
I am going to shoot you!
- Fishing.
- Hello?
Anybody home?
- What are you doing?
- You're feeling the music?
Well, that's what
my project does.
Well, is supposed to do.
It's supposed to
help you feel sound.
- Yeah.
[Jules sighs]
I'm sorry, I know that
I've been distant,
and I feel like I've made
an awful situation worse.
- Well, of course,
if we get it to work.
Actually, I think that
you just solved it.
- Would you be wiling to
help me with something?
- Are you up for a road trip?
- We got him.
- Yeah?
- Well, we know where
they're going anyways.
We think they're headed
to a town called McCall.
- All right, when
do we head out?
- I sent out an APB
with the local sheriff.
We'll head out tomorrow.
- Well, in that case, you
need a drinking buddy?
- I drink alone.
[waves crash]
[soft music]
- [Amberger] Place
has hardly changed.
- If it ain't broke.
Gotta say, never thought
you'd set foot in here again.
You dying or something?
- Aren't we all?
- Who's the girlfriend?
Seems a little young for you.
- Jules, and how?
- The way the air moves
around you when you walk,
and you don't smell
old like this one.
- She's a colleague.
Jules, meet Toby, one
of the original Five.
- So, that's why you're here.
- It's time, it's time
we finished the work.
Is it all still here?
- It's here.
Not sure if it's of
much use anymore.
Didn't go so well last time.
- We didn't have
all the pieces then.
- So that's what you've got
waiting in that old bus.
- Seriously, how are you-
- I'm assuming that you
discussed the notion
of sensory enlightenment,
being that you
just trekked all
the way out here.
- It's just so amazing.
- Well, anyone can
get good at anything,
given enough time or practice.
Let's have a look.
- You think they're
gonna let us in soon?
I'm starving.
- I think that's his mom.
- You know, you cut
something out of your life,
you think it's
gone, that's done,
but then you see it again,
and then you realize
it was always there
just under the surface,
waiting for you.
- How do we turn it all on?
[machinery hums]
What happened?
- Power surge, I'm guessing.
There's a breaker
box in the corner.
- [Jules] Oh, found it.
All right, try now.
- It's not the wiring.
- Can we fix it?
- It'll take a while.
We'll have to go through
every piece of machinery.
- We don't have a lot of time.
- Do we have a Plan B?
- We improvise.
[gentle electronic music]
- Each one of you
represents a loss
of one of the five
primary senses.
We believe that you're what's
called sensory enlightened,
and we want to explore
that enlightenment
and how we might focus it,
working together
in a group setting
towards the goal of
unlocking what we'll
simply refer to as the
sixth sense, for now.
- All right, okay, so this
is some sort of club thing?
Right?
I mean, sorry, I'm new.
I just sort of tagged
along on this one.
Seemed like a good
idea at the time.
- [Jules] [sighs]
Maybe you can explain
it better, Dr. Amberger.
- You're doing fine.
- Okay. [sighs]
This is my sister Dana.
And, Dana, you can't hear.
- But you can see.
What are you seeing now?
- So you see me talking,
and you understand
what I'm saying.
- While looking at
me, can you point
to the painting of
the deer in this room?
Look.
- That you're experiencing a
level of sensory enlightenment,
the opportunity to
experience more of the world
that exists around
us beyond what is
limited by our biology.
And, just today,
I witnessed Toby
catch and filet a fish
without skipping a beat.
- Practice makes perfect.
- Yeah, but you can
hear, what is it,
frequencies up to 22 kilohertz?
- Like a bat.
- And our Max here
has had ageusia
for as long as he can remember.
- Not as fun as it sounds.
- But that has
led to hyperosmia.
- I mean I did smell bubblegum
from across the dining
room recently, once.
Let's not get
ahead of ourselves.
- Max, it was remarkable.
And, Stevie, you lost
your ability to smell,
but you can still taste,
and since the nose
is responsible
for part of the flavor of food,
it's remarkable that you
still have the receptors
for sweet and sour,
salty and bitter.
- This is really cool.
Do her next!
- People like my
lovely friend Sam here,
who are paralyzed,
often have something
called proprioception.
They can sense
what's around them
even though it's
not being detected
by any other sense.
- Far out.
- Yeah, exactly.
Alone, these senses
are remarkable.
Layered on top of each
other, it's possible
that they're, well, superhuman.
- Is he going to get food?
[waves crush]
[Stevie hums]
If we had a bonfire and
a case of Keystone Light,
it'd be just like
1989 all over again.
Tough crowd.
- I'm not down with any of this.
- Well, I'm not
sure I am, either.
I mean, I'm not even sure
what I'm doing here even.
No idea what that girl
was going on about.
- [Noah] You can
leave, you know.
- Well, not like I
thought this through.
You were there.
Had neither car, money, ID.
I am curious.
What if something, something
truly amazing was gonna happen,
and I missed it?
I'd hate to miss it.
Wouldn't you?
- Nothing amazing
is going to happen.
- It's true then?
- What?
- That your mother died here.
- Yes, it is.
[waves lap]
- [Amberger] You salvaged it.
- I did.
It wasn't easy, either.
- Still work?
- It was short-circuited,
but I fiddled
around with it over the years.
What are you planning
here, Freddy?
You can't bring her back,
and there ain't no
amount of brain rewiring
that's gonna save you.
- I just wanna finish.
- The work?
I know, but why?
Have you even told
these kids what happened
the last time you tried this?
Does Noah even know the truth?
- Because of Hilda, we now
know it has to be all of you,
just like the first time.
- Hell of a cost
for that tidbit of knowledge.
- No, she wanted
to see it, Toby,
to feel what you all felt.
There was nothing I
could do to stop her.
You know how convinced she was
that it would help her
understand how to heal herself.
- And there it is.
If you can honestly
tell me right now
that this isn't some
cockamamie scheme
to try to save yourself,
I might, might,
consider getting the
rest of this antique junk
up and running again.
- I've accepted my fate, Toby.
[gentle music]
- Okay, everyone,
so until we're up
and operational
with our equipment,
we're going to improvise some
tactile sensory experiments,
starting with this.
I'm gonna pass this box
around to each of you,
and you must draw a picture
of what you think is inside.
You can hold it, shake
it, smell it, whatever.
The only rule is you
cannot look inside the box.
Once everyone has a
go, we'll open it,
see what's inside,
compare drawings,
and discuss how you made
your decisions, okay?
♪ There's been a whole
lot of talking, babe ♪
♪ Things I don't want to hear
♪ The only thing that
I long to listen to ♪
♪ Is your breathing
when you're near ♪
♪ It's dark and lonesome
♪ When you're gone
♪ I hope to see you now
♪ Before too long
♪ Forget what your troubles
- How's it coming, old friend?
- Almost done, don't you worry.
♪ Come on home to me
♪ Forget what your
troubles seem to be ♪
♪ And come on home to me
- Not long now.
♪ There's lots of things
♪ To see out on the road
♪ Things you won't
see back here ♪
Toby?
- Yeah?
- I think you're remarkable.
You know, you're the one who
made me believe in all this.
- You okay, Freddy?
- I'm perfect.
♪ You've got some place
♪ To get to instead
of just going ♪
♪ Forget what your
troubles seem to be ♪
I'll be seeing you.
♪ Come on home to me
♪ Forget what your
troubles seem to be ♪
♪ And come on home to me
[chattering]
- You can do it, you can do it!
- Dad, what happened that day?
- Well, I realize
how this will sound,
but it was something magical.
- I should've known better.
- Our work explored individuals
able to transcend
their disabilities,
to find a higher sense.
I think your mother
took that transcendence
to another level.
I mean, you feel her, don't you?
I mean, I know you can't
see her or touch her,
but you feel her,
don't you, son?
She knew her time
with us was short
so she figured out how to
stay with us a little longer.
Sadly, it meant she needed
to take another form.
Cosmic dust to cosmic dust.
- You really are losing
your mind, aren't you?
[shouting]
- Why don't you join them, son?
Have a bit of fun.
I think it's time I
have a little rest.
- Dad.
[gentle music]
It's a good story.
You're crazy, but thank you.
[gentle music]
♪ Forget what your
troubles seem to be ♪
♪ And come on home to me
♪ Forget what your
troubles seem to be ♪
♪ And come on home to me
- Are you sure this isn't
just an excuse to go fishing?
- Listen, you cover the
road, I'll cover the water.
We know they're in
one of these cabins
on the east side of the lake.
This way, we get a 360
degree view if we split up.
- I really wanna believe you.
- Let's go get this guy.
[Toby sighs]
[machinery hums]
- [Toby] Yes!
[shouting]
- [Stevie] So close, so close.
- Hello, it's working, Freddy.
Freddy?
♪ I wish I could swim
♪ Just like the dolphins
♪ Like dolphins can swim
- Almost, almost!
- You're amazing!
- Wait, something's wrong.
Something's coming.
- Why does it smell like
gunmetal and Chanel Number Five?
- He's gone, he's gone!
- Freeze.
[gun clicks]
Turn around slowly.
Now where's Heinrich Kline?
Amberger, or whatever
he's calling himself now.
- Gone.
- What is he doing?
[jagged music]
- Sir, are you blind?
- Just my eyes.
Say, if you don't
mind lowering that,
I gotta go see a friend of mine
before he does something
really foolish.
- Is your friend Amberger?
- That's the one.
♪ You will be queen
♪ And nothing
♪ Can drive us away
- What is he doing?
- Something stupid.
♪ We could be heroes
- You should've
let me go with her.
I had a plan.
- We've already had this talk.
I'm not doing it again.
- But none of these
people can help me.
Only I can help me.
Cosmic dust to cosmic dust.
- What is he doing?
Does that boat run?
- It does.
♪ Standing
♪ By the wall
♪ And the guns, the guns
- The doctor is in trouble.
- What do we do?
♪ And we kiss
- [Sam] We go get him.
♪ So nothing could fall
♪ And the shame
♪ Was on the other side
♪ Oh, we can beat them
♪ For ever and ever
♪ Then we can be heroes
♪ Just for one day
- It's almost time.
♪ We can be heroes
- Haven't seen him.
- Unbelievable.
♪ We can be heroes
♪ We
♪ Just for one day
♪ We can be heroes
- Dad.
[buzzing]
- It is beautiful.
- Doc!
[buzzing]
[gentle music]
- Hey, hey, guys,
are you seeing this?
[buzzing music]
- What is it?
- I have no idea.
[gentle music]
- I do.
- [Amberger Voiceover] You
may be asking yourself, why,
why bring you to this
place and then leave you.
Well, it's simple.
You have everything you
need right in front of you,
and I, well, I am
needed elsewhere.
I chose you because the
work is personal to you,
and when it's personal,
you see it through,
and, despite others trying
to beat it out of you,
you haven't lost
your sense of wonder
and your zeal for discovery.
I'm going to guess that
when I push out in a moment,
our sensory-enabled
friends are going
to be the first to
notice and probably
the first to start out after me.
Let them be your guide
as you take this work
further than I could
have ever imagined.
By now, you may have figured out
you just had your
first experience
with the multiplier effect,
those senses layered
on top of one another
to reveal the sixth sense,
which is ultimately
our shared humanity.
You're probably also
thinking that it was
a failed experiment,
but you're wrong.
If everyone came
together in that water,
and if they're standing
beside your right now,
I can tell you, it succeeded
beyond my wildest dreams.
Now, take a breath,
and go forward.
- What's next?
- [Amberger Voiceover]
You know what to do.
- We finish the work.
[pulsing electronic music]
[piano music]
[shimmering music]